Welcome back to the fourth and
final module of the course.
In this module, we'll cover the underlying
principles of large scale graph processing
and the software infrastructure
that supports it.
So, in this module,
you'll learn a programming model for
graph computation and
systems that implement this model.
After this model, you'll be able to
formulate graph analytics computations
in terms of the programming model.
This module will consist of three lessons.
The first lesson, will revisit
the concept of the programming model and
introduce a programming model
called Bulk Synchronous Parallel or
BSP that is designed specifically for
graph oriented computation.
I will discuss two well known versions of
the central idea, Pregel from Google, and
Graphlab from Carnegie Mellon University.
The second lesson,
we'll discuss two software systems,
Giraph that operates on Hadoop,
and GraphX that operates on Spark.
We'll compare the basic architecture
of these two systems and
point out their differences.
The final lesson will show example
computations, using graphics platform.
Since graphics come with Spark,
we've created these examples on the
virtual machine, which you have access to.
The code and
some data sets are available for
those who wish to play with the system.